Hi, welcome. This is the Introduction
to Big Data course. In this part, we will explain the concept
you will need for full understanding of the big data, both from the technical
as well as the business perspective. We will also introduce you to major
concepts and major components, so you can hold your own in a meaningful
conversation about big data. So what we're trying to
do is predict the future, based on the historic data in order to
solve tomorrow's business challenges. We're talking about big data, so in this module we will talk about basic
concepts that we need to understand about the big data, both the technical
as well as the business. We're gonna talk about the architecture,
the motivations, and reasons why we're even talking about these
concepts, technologies and architectures. So as I mentioned, we're designing this
course both for technical and business professionals who need to understand the
different types of big data components, and the underlying technology, and
the concepts that support big data. In this module, we're gonna take a look
at the concepts that help us understand different components of the infrastructure
that make the big data more practical and usable. Later in big data specializations, we will focus more on the details of
the different data management and specific platform and analysis options for
emerging technologies. Things like MapReduce, Spark and other technologies that
support big data ecosystem. In this course, we are going to
start out with a high level overview just to understand what these components
are and how they work together. So throughout our first
introductory lecture, we are going to try and
answer a couple of different questions. How do you analyze the massive
amounts of data that become part of your big data infrastructure? How can we get deeper insight
from different types of data? How can we find the real
meaning from the data and enable those data driven decisions and
actions? We're gonna look at the couple of use
cases and examples of how companies are beginning to use big data and
transform their businesses and operations. So managing and analyzing data has
always been the challenge across many organizations of different
sizes across all industries. Businesses have always struggled
to find a pragmatic approach to capture information about their
customers, their product, their services. When the company only had a handful of
customers who bought a few of their items, that was not that difficult. It was not as big of a challenge. But over time,
companies in the markets started growing. Things have become more complicated. Now we have branding Information,
social media. We have things that are sold and
bought over the Internet. We need to come up with
different solutions. Web development, organizations, pricing,
social networks, segmentations. There's a lot of different data that
we're dealing with that brings a lot more complexity when it comes to dealing,
managing, organizing and
trying to gain some insight from the data. Big data is important because it enables
organizations to gather, store, and manipulate vast amounts of data at
the right speed at the right time. As you can see here, we believe there's some amount of
untapped value in the big data. Data is coming from satellite images,
eCommerce, TV, video sensors and we're trying
to correlate all of this data. Use analytics and
predictive analytics, deep analytics, deeper insight from our data, in order to
come up with answers, in order to improve the return of investment, in order to
maybe predict extreme weather conditions. Maybe we're just looking
at biodiversity trends, or maybe we're really trying to understand
our customers and learn their habits, and predict their future behaviors. The idea is that untapped
value of the big data is what is bringing all of this hype and
interest into technologies and tools that we can use to
gain insight into our data.