Data is moving in from
a variety of sources. The question is, are we keeping up? Although each data source can be
independently managed and searched, the challenge today is how the companies
make sense of all of this data? How do you find intersection, and
incorporate, and find insight for multiple data sets, and
multiple types of data. Yes, big data is making the world go
around but using it is the hardest part. It is really not a single technology. We should all think about big
data as a combination of the old. And new technologies that help companies
gain additional insight from the data. Did you know that over 90% of world's data
has been created in the last two years? That is tremendous. Data growth has just been unbelievable. In 2009 estimates,
we had about 0.8 Zetabyes. In 2020, the estimates are we're
gonna go up to 35 Zetabytes. And those estimates are growing larger,
and larger, as well. New York Times actually
estimates that by 2020, the size of digital universe
will be 40 Trillion Gigabytes. So, what is changing in
the land of the Big Data? This data is growing very rapidly, but
what are the differences from maybe ten years ago when data was
still growing pretty rapidly for the technologies we had at the time. Well, the data growth is these
days driven by unstructured data. It is really changing the way
people work within organizations. Now different departments
are starting to work together. Business and
IT leaders need to come together and realize the potential of all data. As you can see here,
88% of the data is unstructured data, and that is the sector that's growing
the fastest and the largest. Big data is being generated
everywhere around us, at all times. From structured, to mobile phones,
to points of sale, to GPS satellite data,
all the way to the customer, who are these days emitting
about a terabyte of data, a day. All the way to the social network data,
smart meters, customer data. In order to extract meaningful
information from big data, we need optimal processes and
the right kind of analytics. We've talked a lot about Zettabytes and
Exabytes and, did you know that a Zettabyte
is 1024 times larger than the Exabyte which is 1024 times
larger than the Petabyte, and then we talk about tiny little
Terabytes and Gigabytes. So, there's a lot of motivations for
why we are talking about big data. We know data is coming from everywhere, but I bet you everyone one of you has
spent a little bit of time on Internet. Do you have any idea what happens
in one minute on the Internet? A lot of things happen in
one minute on the Internet. I'll give you a moment to
analyze this slide, and take a look at what happens
in a short amount of time. The amount information collected. It's tremendous. The reason we're talking about all of
this, the reason you're taking this course is, that we believe this is
just a tip of the Iceberg. That the big data we see, contains
a tremendous amount of information and insight, underneath the piles of big data,
where we can use these tools and then nowadays to gain insight, and
gain a better understanding of our data. And enable data driven decisions. So let's see how that
works in our next lecture. We're gonna look into the details about
the big data and characteristics, and some tools, and techniques, that we
can utilize to analyze the big data.