Hi, welcome back. In this module we're gonna talk
about the emerging big data stack. We will cover basic concepts you need to
gain full understanding of the big data, the technologies, the frameworks and the architecture supporting all
of the analysis of big data. We will cover some of the technology
foundation, as well as both business and technical aspects of how
do we deal with big data? How do we analyze it and
gain that insight we're working for? So let's talk about functional
requirements for big data. When we have big data, we need to talk
about how do we capture, organize, integrate, analyze, and
act on that data set. So we need to gain, gather
a collection of appropriate data set. Then we wanna spend some time trying
to integrate that data, organize it. Maybe match it to particular internal
data sets that we have and once this phase is successfully implemented,
we can actually start analyzing the data. We can perform simple analytics. We can perform more statistical or more
advanced, deeper, predictive analytics. Once those analytics have
provided us some insight, we're gonna bring this data
up to our management, and hopefully they're gonna take action
based on the outcome of this analysis. For example, if you're buying a book
on Amazon.com about data science, maybe they will offer you
a book about big data. So building a successful big data
management stack is very important. When we talk about the big data stack,
typically we think about managing that fast data, being able to put some
analytics on top of that data and then being able to offer some focused services
on top of those analytics and the data. When we talk about these kinds
of aspects of the big data, we really want to think
about that speed and scale. So there's many tools that provide
us fast scalable access to the data, push that up to the analytic stack so
we can perform predictive analytics, deep analytics, summary analytics, whatever it
is that we need to perform our data set. And then we offer those
as focused services. So let's look at the big data landscape. A big data management architecture must
include a variety of services that will enable companies to use a myriad of these
data sources in fast and effective manner. If you look at this
chart it's very crowded. There's many, many different areas
of these booming new technologies. New companies are coming
on market constantly and space is getting a little crowded. If you look at this there is big data companies that perform
in the analytics space. There 's big data companies that are
providing architecture, analytics tools. There is open source tools, there's
companies that take open source tools and provide services on top of them. There are tools that are providing
underlying architecture. And maybe you would like to
perform this big data analytics on the cloud versus on an internal set
of hardware and software resources. You can make a pick. Bottom line is it is a crowded and
diverse space. Even more, most of the marketing
companies have taken this technology and adopted it really early and really fast,
because as we have seen in our early topics, even the small increase in
an upworth model can bring very large ROI. So marketing companies
are at the forefront, running ahead with these technologies. And if we look at the landscape
of marketing technologies, you can see that they are more
than doubled in a one year period, tremendous grown and a lot of variety
of differentials and technologies. So what is driving all of this? What are the needs that we have? If we have understood the big data
challenges, we see the motivations, the data is fast, there's a lot it,
there's a large variety. But what they really want to do
is provide real-time, scalable, high-performance computing and analytics
on this very large complex data set. So while big data has dominated
the headlines over the past year, large computing problems have existed for
a long time. And each time a new, faster, bigger,
higher capacity computer would come along and try to solve some of the problems
that have been challenging the industry. However in the recent years, most of
the systems are just not large enough to handle very large data sets and the expanded computation that
needs to be performed on them. In the meantime, all call area
networks have become more popular and usable and researchers have
thought about this concept of bringing the storage capacity and
the computational capacity together. So this is really about Monte Vista Hadoop
and what brought Hadoop to the existence. The Apache Hadoop Software Project really
develops the open-source software for reliable, scalable, distributed computing. The Apache Hadoop Software Library
is a framework that allows the distributed processing
of a large data set across a cluster of computers using very
simple programming models. These clusters are typically commodity
servers, they're cheap, and scalable. Hadoop is our solution to
problems that are too big to solve on your regular old desktop. It is designed to scale from a single
server to thousands of machines in a very high scalable
fault tolerant way. So let's talk about Hadoop features. Why is Hadoop so popular? Well, one of the important aspects of
Hadoop, is that it's very low cost. Commodity servers are connected
in a parallel way. They can radically reduce
the cost of storing, modeling and processing very large complex data sets. It is scalable. Adding new service to the resources
to the existing cluster is very easy. You don't have to disturb any of
the existing analytics work, and any of the existing applications. You can just add new nodes as needed. Fault-tolerant. When one load goes down, the system
automatically will redirect work and continue processing without
missing a beat, and it's a very flexible environment. Hadoop is scheme free. It can manage structured data. It can manage unstructured
data with no problems. You can join and
aggregate multiple sources. And perform any kind of deep analytics
that will solve your business problems and provide you additional
insight into your data. There are many different
distributions of Hadoop. The original open source Hadoop
software comes out of apache.org. However, there's many other
companies as you can see here, who deploy open source software and
might charge for some of the services and support on top of that software.