Welcome back. So far we have covered a lot of
different aspects of Big Data. We looked at why we have Big Data,
we looked at potential architectures, technologies. We looked at how Big Data
correlates to Internet of Things. We have looked at how predictive
analytics can benefit a lot of in finding a lot
of insight from big data. Now, let's talk a little bit about
what is, what do you need to do to execute a successful big,
small or medium data project? What would be the basic rules
you would wanna think about and follow as you embark on
this Big Data journey? Well, my first advice is don't start
without understanding the actual value. What will be the ROI that's gonna come
out of this particular experiment? A lot of people get really excited about
the technologies and that's great, I get excited about technologies as well. And it's really fun to bring in new
architectures and new tools and try and figure out how to use them, but
do start with a business question and a business problem you're trying to solve. Don't start without understanding
the potential value that this new set of technologies
will bring to your business. Don't ignore the wider Enterprise story. There is so many organizations. They are so silent. And they take this Big Data project and
they just kind of push them in the corner of an IT
department or some other department. And really truly, in order to have
a successful Big Data project, you really need to integrate data
that comes across the organization, merge the data from different departments. Bring together the HR and the sales and the marketing team together with the IT
teams to really come together and be able to demonstrate the value
across the organization. As well as create a stronger team that
will create a more successful project that will receive the visibility it needs
to be successful across the organization. Build the bridges, not the walls. So as excited as we all get
about these new technologies, it's really not about trying out new
technologies and having fun with the data. Big Data has received a lot of hype and
people get really excited about it. And that's great. But it really is about business change. Improving business process, it's bringing
insight and the value to organization. So let's start this
Big Data Journey today. Companies are always dealing with big data
and lots of data and lots of formats. The change that big data brings to us,
is that now this information can be processed in much faster speeds and
provide us that insight almost instantly. But we have to keep in mind that the older
technologies, older tools are there to help us solve business problems and
to be able to react to the opportunity. With the Big Data, were gonna
look in to analyzing large data, trying to find patterns. We're going to look into managing
larger amounts of data and applying them to the specific business
needs that our organization have. Those needs can vary from managing a city, to preventing a failure,
to be able to enhance a product quality. Or to maybe just keep our brand name in
a great shape and improving over time. All of these emerging technologies and
tools are the heart of the Big Data technologies we're gonna cover for
the rest of this specialization. We're gonna spend time understanding them. Learning them in a hands-on way
where we're gonna do exercises and really be able to utilize these
techniques to their fullest potential. So let's have fun.