Welcome back, everybody. Today, we're going to talk about
demystifying the data scientist, the whole area and
discipline of data science, as well as all the other influencers that
have made this new area become so popular. We're gonna try and cut through that hype
and learn more about what it really is, how does it work, What can you do with it? What is actually the value
of the big data? How can we compute our
way to better decision coming out of these large
information systems? Anywhere from providing forefront
support to maybe your customers all the way to being able to
create predictive models and provide data driven decisions for
the upper management. Computer systems are very no
longer deterministic machines. They are not even always
physically available to you. We're talking about clouds and
virtual worlds and the dialogs between people are often
happening throughout this digital world, and there's a lot of opportunity
to improve many of these different aspects of our
lives through computing. So why is Big Data fueling Data Science,
you might ask yourself? Are they related? How does one influence the other? And really, what data scientists are
trying to do, or what this new discipline of data science has started forming
around it are really fueled by big data. Big data challenges are certainly
something that have inspired, motivated, and challenged the data sciences to bring
in all of these technologies together and be able to find some meaning
in this chaos of large, fast-moving, uncertain data that we
have present around us these days. So, now we're talking about going
beyond relational databases. If you think about maybe even
ten years ago, the majority of the data was stored in relational
databases, maybe where warehouse. If you think about it we saw that
picture about what happens in sixty seconds on the internet,
there's a lot of clickstreams happening. People are searching for different things, people are exploring,
people are buying different things. Now we have this constant stream of
the quick clicking around the Internet and maybe we can do something
interesting with that. A lot of enterprises are already a lot
of interesting things with them. If you think about the rational databases,
we're going beyond rational data bases for many reasons. Those four Vs describe those
reasons pretty well, but if you think about machine data,
machine data is very fast, it is not necessarily humanly understandable, but
that can give you a lot of information and a lot of insight into both how
your enterprises are working, it can help IT system
optimize into things, it can help security guides predict and
detect potential intrusion and so on. On top of all of that,
we have a lot of streaming data. There's sensors everywhere. This is why we're starting to talk
about IoT, or Internet of Things. All these devices are getting
connected throughout the world. They're starting to talk to each other, they're starting to omit information
back to the data sources, and there is exponentially growing number of censors
being deployed everywhere in the world. That data is coming in
at extremely fast pace. With the variety,
veracity, and uncertainty. Now, we're talking about structure, we have been used to structured data sets,
traditional database schemas. And we're talking about raw,
complex, unstructured wild data coming to us in various formats and
we need to do something about it. Now the traditional warehouses
are not disappearing, they might not even go away for
quite a long time, cause they still have a purpose and
they are good at what they do. These additional challenges
that big data is bringing to us are now bringing on all of these
new technologies, new platforms. One of them being the Hadoop, or
HDFS, Hadoop Data File System. Now, we're able to use these
distributed low-cost systems that can address some needs that we have, they're brought upon by big data,
processing data, really fast. Being able to do ETL, or extract,
transform, and load data, really fast. Maybe do some quick summaries, and extract
some interesting pieces of information, or use maybe some of the advanced analytics
and gain deeper insight into our data set. So, not only do we have warehouse now,
we have this whole new set of big data technologies that we have seen a little
bit about in the previous lecture and we're gonna go deeper and
learn a lot more about these different technologies based
on the distributed file system. Talking about data warehouse. Now, we're talking about going beyond
the warehouse not only in the size of the data, not only in the structure, but
how we actually Interact with that data. Can't we use SQL anymore? Possibly. There are some tools that mimic
the way the SQL works and can help you access your data. How do you retrieve that data,
how do you analyze it and summarize it becomes a little different,
and we will go into a lot more details in that
once we start talking about HBase and Hive and Pig and all these other tools
that sit on top of the Hadoop platform. Now we're talking about
expanded views of the data. We're not only getting purchase data
information about our customers. We're now exposed to a whole lot new data. A whole new world of data. We're now talking about behavioral data,
social media data, multiple sources of data. Integration of the data
becomes a large challenge, cuz we oftentimes wanna have that one
unified look on our data where we can apply all these different analytics and
maybe deploy some deep learning tools and extract some information from
hat data in some automated way. We're talking about online data,
quick data, streaming data,
interaction between the data. Here we are now, collecting
observational data, consumption, demographics, we're looking
at preferences of the people. People who are openly telling us
about what they like and dislike, what they're interested in. We can look at social interactions. We can look at groupings of people. We can look at what they
do in their free time. There's a lot of new resources today
that have never existed before.