So how do we find meaning in the chaos? Well there's a lot of different
techniques that can be applied. There's techniques for integration,
transformation, and load of this data. They're a set of techniques
that bring all of this data and allow us to integrate it together. And then there is techniques for
analytics. We can talk about simple analytics. We can talk about statistical analysis. And then we'll later on start
talking about advanced analytics and predictive analytics using
the many different techniques. Again, big data is moving
us beyond traditional business intelligence tools, beyond
traditional dashboards and warehouses. That's not to say that we're
not gonna use the iTools and we're not gonna use dashboards. These days you start seeing
a lot of predictive dashboards. You can see the dashboards where you show
the predicted value and the actual value. You can show what your systems thinks will
happen in the next minute, hour, or day. All of these tools are now
coming out in scalable, and distributed versions, where you
can work on a very large data set. Many machine learning algorithms
have been parallelized, and distributed, and optimized, to be able
to work on these new platforms, and be able to deal with these
very large data sets. Typically, in predictive analysis,
in the olden days, we used to talk about taking
a sample of the data. Running some machine
learning algorithms on it. Coming up with some predictive models. And then maybe scoring the larger
set of data on those models. It's a lot harder to do that today and
maybe you don't need to do that today. For certain purposes, you really do want
to take and ingest the entire data set and run predictive models on it. That sample of the data is exploding. If you have zettaytes of data,
what is an appropriate sample to take? You're still talking about at least
petabytes or maybe even zettabytes. At that point of time, that's really not necessarily helpful
when we start talking about sample sizes. That's still challenges a lot
of traditional techniques and resources and technologies. Another point I'd like to bring up as
we start to talk about the big data, something that often gets a lot of
discussion in the area of machinery. As these techniques, both analytics and predictive analytics have
become more popular and more widely used, we start talking
about correlation versus causality. Just because our predictive
algorithm has found some correlation between our variables and maybe
particular values of those variables, that does not necessarily
explain causality. So, we will dig deeper into this interesting aspect of
predictive analytics. But just keep in mind that correlation
doesn't imply causality and inferring causality from predictive
models is a whole other area we will talk about in more depth
later in our classes. Another interest way the big data
has been fueling data sans and in the area of machine learning in
general in the research community, is that there is new methods that
are coming up from the research community. The latest that has gotten a lot
of attention is deep learning. So, now the traditional machine learning
methods have in the past operated on a flat file basis. Now you have this flood of a lot of data,
lots of varieties. Very, very fast moving,
and you need to gain some deeper insight into this very
large volume of complex data. There is new algorithms coming out,
deep learning being one of them, and we'll mention that later